ISTA421-4 asp.Net Mvc 5 Chapter 8

Rory H Millington

13 May 2018

1.Describe the difference between a view and a partial view.

	In the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern, the view handles the app's data presentation and user interaction. A view is an HTML template with embedded Razor markup. Razor markup is code that interacts with HTML markup to produce a webpage that's sent to the client.

	A partial view is a view that's rendered within another view. The HTML output generated by executing the partial view is rendered into the calling (or parent) view. Like views, partial views use the .cshtml file extension. 

2.Throughout the book you have seen examples of LINQ, in your own words describe what it is used for and how it works. 

	LINQ introduces standard, easily-learned patterns for querying and updating data, and the technology can be extended to support potentially any kind of data store. 

	LINQ makes a query a first-class language construct in C# and Visual Basic. You write queries against strongly typed collections of objects by using language keywords and familiar operators. The following illustration shows a partially-completed LINQ query against a SQL Server database in C# with full type checking and IntelliSense support.

3.Look at this piece of code and tell me what it does, and where I would find it written: a. routes.MapRoute(null, "{category}/Page{page}", new { controller = "Product", action = "List" },new { page = @"\d+" }); b. Which call maps to 3a?

4.Give a brief explanation of the ASP.Net routing system.

	The ASP.NET Routing module is responsible for mapping incoming browser requests to particular MVC controller actions. By the end of this tutorial, you will understand how the standard route table maps requests to controller actions.

5.ASP.Net has a concept of child actions, can you describe it? How would you use it? 

	Another MVC feature I want to show you, is the Child Action, because Child Actions are for Actions what Partial Views are to Views. More over, Child Actions are mostly used to render partial pieces in pages, such as data-driven widgets, rather than render common Views. A child action can be called inside a View using the Html.Action helper method.

6.What is a _Layout.cshtml file? How do you use it, if at all? 

	By convention, the default layout for an ASP.NET app is named _Layout.cshtml. The Visual Studio ASP.NET Core MVC project template includes this layout file in the Views/Shared folder: This layout defines a top level template for views in the app.		


7.What is a ViewResult? A PartialViewResult? An ActionResult? When/how would you use them? 

	ActionResult and ViewResult both are mainly a return type for Controller Action method.

	ViewResult - Renders a specified view to the response stream. ViewResult can return Only View result type.
	It is a concrete class It is derived from base class ActionResult. We can use ViewResult when action method return some view.	

	PartialViewResult - Renders a specified partial view to the response stream.

	ActionResult can return many type of Results. It is an abstract class. It is a base class for ViewResult. When action method may have different behavior, like either render a view or perform a redirection. We can use the more general base class ActionResult as the return type. 

8.What is an Entity and how is it used in this project?

	Entity Framework (EF) is an object-relational mapper that enables .NET developers to work with relational data using domain-specific objects. It eliminates the need for most of the data-access code that developers usually need to write. It represent's a cart by creating an entity in the domain model. Add a class file called Cart.cs to the Entities folder in the SportsStore.Domain project and use it to define the classes shown in Listing 8-12.

9.When creating a form in ASP.Net what command can you use that will generate the traditional HTML element? What are action attributes and what kind of actions can a form perform?

	Using the Html.BeginForm helper in each product listing means that every Add to cart button is rendered in its own separate HTML form element. ASP.NET session state feature to store and retrieve Cart objects. This is the purpose of the GetCart method.

10.What is an ASP.Net session state? How is it being used in this project? 

	 ASP.NET has a nice session feature that uses cookies or URL rewriting to associate multiple requests from a user together to form a single browsing session.


11.Why would you create a separate Model object? What is it’s purpose? 

	

12.Describe some ways that Bootstrap was used in this chapter.

	Classes I assigned the elements to correspond to Bootstrap styles for tables and text alignment.
